# 3.16 Dynamic Linking: Shared Library



## Shared library in Linux environment

### naming method

• libname.so.x.y.z  
• x: Major version number, indicating a major upgrade of the library and incompatibility between different major version numbers, Programs that depend on older versions need to be recompiled before they can run  
• y: Minor version number, the incremental upgrade of the library means adding some new interface symbols, the original interface symbols remain unchanged, and the higher version is backward compatible with the lower version  
• z: release version number, some bug fixes, performance improvements, etc., no new interfaces, the original interface remains unchanged  

## Soft Link

•Each shared library has a corresponding SO-NAME, remove the time, release version number  
•The system will create a soft connection with the same name as SO-NAME, pointing to the shared library with the same major version number, the latest minor version number and release version number  

## The Path of Shared Library

•/lib: store the most critical and basic shared libraries of the system, such as dynamic linker, C library, math library, etc. These libraries are mainly required for program operation under /bin, /sbin, and system startup  
•/usr/lib: key shared libraries required for non-system operation, such as some shared libraries used in development, these libraries are generally not used by user programs or shell scripts  
•/usr/local/lib: Mainly store some libraries required by third-party applications  



## Library Search Process

### Basic Process

• When the ELF file is executed, the **dynamic linker** **/lib/ld-linux-so.x** is loaded and started, and the shared library that the ELF file depends on is found in the .dynamic section
• If the path is an absolute path, go directly to the absolute path to find
• If the path is a relative path, go to the directory specified by the /lib, /usr/lib, /etc/ld.so.conf configuration file to search for the shared library.

## Library Directory Cache

• /etc/ld.so.conf stores the path of the shared library. To avoid time-consuming search every time, you can use **ldconfig** to generate a cache /etc/ld.so.cache
• When adding, deleting or updating the shared library path, just update the cache with command line $ **ldconfig**

## Environment Variables

```
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH = /home/osboxes/mukul
```

The command you provided is used to set the "LD_LIBRARY_PATH" environment variable to a specific directory path, which tells the system's dynamic linker where to search for shared libraries at runtime.

1. "export": In Unix-like systems, the "export" command is used to set environment variables. Environment variables are dynamic values that can affect the behavior of various programs and processes running in the current shell session.  
2. "LD_LIBRARY_PATH": "LD_LIBRARY_PATH" is an environment variable specific to dynamic linking. When a program is executed, the dynamic linker/loader uses this variable to search for shared libraries (**.so files**) that the program depends on. If a shared library is not found in the standard system directories, the dynamic linker looks in the directories specified in "LD_LIBRARY_PATH."  
3. "=": The equals sign is used to assign a value to the environment variable. In this case, we are assigning the path "/home/osboxes/mukul" to the "LD_LIBRARY_PATH" variable.  
4. "/home/osboxes/mukul": This is the path to the directory where the shared libraries are located. By setting "LD_LIBRARY_PATH" to this directory, the dynamic linker will search for shared libraries in this location in addition to the default system directories.  